Burn down Chart:
	Shows how much work remains till the end of the Sprint. Optional!
	The vertical axis shows the amount of work/remaining work.	

Cone of Uncertainty
	How much is known about the Product over time

Events
	The Sprint is the heartbeat of scrum
	The Sprint is a container for all other events
	Sprints are intentionally short - Maximum sprint length is 1 calendar month
		Each Sprint may be considered a short project.

	For each sprint, the Scrum Team comes together in the Sprint Planning meeting 
		& assesses which items from top of Product Backlog they can pull into sprint\

		
	Team will work on the sprint, do daily standups, 
		and when the sprint is complete, they will deliver a releasable product increment
		E.G. Getting the approval to pushing to master

	Sprint Review meeting will then evaluate the work.
		
		IDEALLY, NO NEW WORK IS PUSHED INTO SPRINT (omegalulz)

	Various practices exist to forecast progress, like burn-downs, burn-ups, or cumulative flows.

	

	===
	Sprint Planning Meeting

		- sprint goal is why the work of that Sprint is important
			- sprint backlog is what & how	
			
		Questions to ask:
			what can be delivered? 
			how can it be delivered? 
			Why is the sprint valuable?

		- timeboxed to a maximum of eight hours for a one-month Sprint. 
			For shorter Sprints, the event is usually shorter.
		- used to plan the work of the Sprint
		- first event within the sprint
		- plan is created by the collaborative work of ENTIRE scrum team.


		The Scrum Guide requires only the work planned for the first days of the Sprint is 
			decomposed by the end of the Sprint Planning, often to units of one day or less.

		
		INPUT for Sprint Planning:
			the Product Backlog, 
			the latest product Increment, 
			projected capacity of the Development Team during the Sprint, 
			and past performance of the Development Team.

		Sprint backlog is primary output for sprint planning!!!!!!!!!!!
		The more the Developers know about their past performance, their upcoming capacity, and their Definition of Done, 
			the more confident they will be in their Sprint forecasts.

		During Sprint Planning, the Development Team may also invite other people to attend in order to provide technical or domain advice.

		[REPEAT] After the Development Team forecasts the Product Backlog items it will deliver in the Sprint, 
			the Scrum Team crafts a Sprint Goal.

	Sprint Goal
		- high level objective that will be accomplished by completing the Product Backlog items 
		- helps ensure a shared understanding of the whole Sprint purpose (puts everything on the table)
		- Once settled, THE SPRINT GOAL SHOULD NEVER CHANGE . The scope however may be clarified/renogitioted. 	

		

	SCRUM Daily Standup
		At max 15 min standup.		
	
		What did I do yesterday?
		What will I do today?
		Do I see any stucks or impediments?

		THERE IS NO PRESCRIBED STRUCTURE!  

		The Daily Scrum is an internal meeting for the DEVELOPMENT TEAM!
			If others are present, the Scrum Master ensures that they do not disrupt the meeting.


	Sprint Review Meeting
		Held at end of the sprint
		Inspects the outcome of the Sprint and determine future adaptations
			the Scrum Team and stakeholders review what was accomplished in the Sprint and what has changed in their environment


		The Key Stakeholders are allowed to participate only in the Sprint Review meeting. However, any member of the Scrum Team can interact with them any time.

		The Sprint Review is the second to last event of the Sprint and is timeboxed to a maximum of four hours for a one-month Sprint. 
			For shorter Sprints, the event is usually shorter.

		Output/Result:
			Revised Product Backlog [that defines the probable Product Backlog items for the next Sprint]
		


	The Sprint Retrospective 
		concludes the Sprint. 
		is an opportunity for Scrum team to inspect itself & create improvement plans for next Sprint.
		SPRINT RETROSPECTIVE IS AN INTERNAL EVENT FOR SCRUM TEAM		

		identifies the most helpful changes to improve its effectiveness
			how'd the last sprint go
			potential improvements & improvement plan 
		It is timeboxed to a maximum of three hours for a one-month Sprint. For shorter Sprints, the event is usually shorter.
		
		Definition of Done can be reviewed and adapted during each Sprint Retrospective.

		EX:
			There should be more emphasis on unit testing

		=== 
		The purpose of the Sprint Retrospective is to:

			Inspect how the last Sprint went with regards to people, relationships, process, and tools;
			Identify and order the major items that went well and potential improvements; and,
			Create a plan for implementing improvements to the way the Scrum Team does its work.

		When does a Sprint conclude?
			When the sprint retrospective is complete.

		During the Sprint:
			No changes are made that would endanger the Sprint Goal;
			Quality goals do not decrease; and,
			Scope may be clarified and re-negotiated between the Product Owner and Development Team as more is learned


		What happens when a Sprint is cancelled?
			if sprint goal becomes obsolete, then sprint can be cancelled.

			When a Sprint is cancelled, any completed and “Done” Product Backlog items are reviewed. 
			If part of the work is potentially releasable, the Product Owner typically accepts it. 
			All incomplete Product Backlog Items are re-estimated and put back on the Product Backlog.

			If some work could not be done by end of Sprint, the Sprint Backlog should be re-negotiated between the Product Owner and Development Team.

			WHO HAS AUTHORITY TO CANCEL THE SPRINT?
				Only the Product Owner has the authority to cancel the Sprint

Artifacts
	- something we make or a tool to solve a problem
	- share goals to maximize transparency & shared understanding of work.
	- both backlogs demonstrate work to be done that will define value

	Who's responsible for coping with incomplete artifact transparency?
		The Scrum Master’s job is to work with the Scrum Team and the organization to increase the transparency of the artifacts. 
			This work usually involves learning, convincing, and change.

	Product Backlog
		an ordered list of everything that is known to be needed in the product
		Product Owner is SOLE person responsible
		is dynamic and is never complete. As long as product exists, the Product Backlog also exists.

		single source of requirements for any changes but sorted by WHATEVER IS DEEMED MOST APPROPRIATE BY THE PRODUCT OWNER (since stakeholders have unlimited needs). 
			However, most valuable & clear items should be placed on top.
		Products have one Product Backlog, regardless of how many Scrum Teams are used.
		
		Key Notes:
			- list of requirements that product team has to work on
			- dyanic list - evolves over time
			- higher priority items are on top of the list

		typically each item has a description, estimate & value

		the Product Backlog emerges to define “what” will fulfill the Product Goal.
			The Product Goal describes a future state of the product & is the long-term objective for the Scrum Team
			throughout sprint, can be refined by adding descriptions, estimates & order.
		

		Who is responsible for all estimates in the Product Backlog?
			The Development Team is responsible for all estimates in the Product Backlog. 
			The Product Owner may influence the Development Team by helping it understand and select trade-offs, but the people who will perform the work make the final estimate.

		Product Backlog management includes:
				Clearly expressing Product Backlog items;
				Ordering the items in the Product Backlog to best achieve goals and missions;
				Optimizing the value of the work the Development Team performs;
				Ensuring that the Product Backlog is visible, transparent, and clear to all, and shows what the Scrum Team will work on next; and,
				Ensuring the Development Team understands items in the Product Backlog to the level needed.
		
		
	Sprint Backlog
		- Development teams plan on HOW they'll deliver the new product increment

		- The Product Backlog items selected for this Sprint plus the plan for delivering them
		- The Developers modify the Sprint Backlog throughout the Sprint, and the Sprint Backlog emerges during the Sprint.
		
		Who is allowed to change the Sprint Backlog during the Sprint
			- SOLE DEVELOPERS


		- what & how of the sprint
		- during sprint planning, scrum team creates sprint goal & sprint backlog
	
		- created during sprint plannning by & for DEVELOPMENT team.
			- pull in items from product backlog for that sprint
			- completes Sprint Goal
			- sometimes helps team plan in advance for next Sprint Planning. i.e. "What to work on next?" 
		- their plan on how to deliver the sprint goal
		- regularly updated during sprint. IT REGURLARLY CHANGES.
		
		The Sprint Goal, the Product Backlog items selected for the Sprint, 
			plus the plan for delivering them are together referred to as the Sprint Backlog.

		[REPEAT] After the Development Team forecasts the Product Backlog items it will deliver in the Sprint, 
			the Scrum Team crafts a Sprint Goal.


	Increment
		created by Development Team
		sum of all completed Product Backlog items in a given sprint AND values of increments in previous sprints
		The sum of all Increments form a product.

		provides transparent "snapshot" of the state of product at end of Sprint
			- "Working software is the primary measure of progess"
		meets the teams definition of "Done"
		usable by stakeholders!

		the "Done" portion of product completed during a sprint that defines the COMPLETE and valuable work produced by the Developers during a Sprint. 
			
		
		Increment should be realease to end users when product owners are most comfortable or when they think its the best.

	Definition of Done
		Definition of Done can be reviewed and adapted during each Sprint Retrospective.
		During each Sprint Retrospective, the Scrum Team plans ways to increase product quality by adapting the definition of “Done” as appropriate.

		What to take into account:
			If the definition of “done” for an increment is part of the conventions, 
				standards or guidelines of the development organization, 
				all Scrum Teams must follow it as a minimum. 

		The development team is responsible for creating "Definition of Done"
		If “done” for an increment is not a convention of the development organization, 
			the Development Team of the Scrum Team must define a definition of “done” appropriate for the product. 
	
			If there are multiple Scrum Teams working on the system or product release, the development teams on all of the Scrum Teams must mutually define the definition of “Done.”

		DoD is used to assess when work is complete on the product Increment
		DoD guides the Development Team in knowing how many Product Backlog items it can select during a Sprint Planning
		DoD ensures artifact transparency

non functional arguments should be addressed every sprint.

STAKEHOLDERS CAN BE INVITED BY SCRUM TEAM TO WHICH EVENTS?
	Sprint planning and review.

who is required to attend the daily scrum?
	the developers & scrum master (although scrum master can leave if they know devs have everything settled)
	
Does Scrum Master have to attend daily scrum?
	They do not have to be there;  they only ensure daily scrum is there.

three pillars of empiricism?

who manages the progress of work during a sprint?
	Developers

which event has shortest time box event?
	retrospective

Next Sprint begins after end of previous sprint

Upon what type of process control is Scrum based?
	Empirical

When should a Developer on a scrum team be replaced?
	As needed, while taking into account a short-term reduction in productivity.

Who has final say on order of Product Backlog?	
	Product Owner

Who's on the scrum team?

Product backlog is ordered by
	whatever is deemed most appropriate by the product owner

Sprint Review?
	scrum team & shareholders inspect the outcome of a sprint and figure out what to do next.

Scrum team size?
	10 or fewer.

who creates the definition of done?
	- if not an organization standard, 
		the scrum team must create a DoD appropriate for the prodcut.

	All scrum teams must have a definition of done


product owner
	maximizes the value of the work the Scrum team does.

THE CEO asks the developers to add a "very important" item in middle of  a sprint. What should devs do?
	inform other members of scrum team so that they can decide on what to do.

Does the product increment MUST be released to production at the end of the sprint?
	FALSE:
	The product Increment should be usable and releasable at the end of every Sprint, 
		but it does not have to be released.

The Sprint is a container for the following timeboxed events: 
	Sprint Planning, Daily Scrum, Sprint Review, and Sprint Retrospective



The Scrum Master serves the Product Owner in several ways, including:

	Ensuring that goals, scope, and product domain are understood by everyone on the Scrum Team as well as possible;
	Finding techniques for effective Product Backlog management;
	Helping the Scrum Team understand the need for clear and concise Product Backlog items;
	Understanding product planning in an empirical environment;
	Ensuring the Product Owner knows how to arrange the Product Backlog to maximize value;
	Understanding and practicing agility; and,
	Facilitating Scrum events as requested or needed.

The Scrum Master serves the Development Team including:
	Coaching the Development Team in self-organization and cross-functionality;
	Helping the Development Team to create high-value products;
	Removing impediments to the Development Team’s progress;
	Facilitating Scrum events as requested or needed; and,
	Coaching the Development Team in organizational environments in which Scrum is not yet fully adopted and understood.


In Scrum Lingo, what is "Development"?
	When the words “develop” and “development” are used in the Scrum Guide, they refer to complex work including 
		software and hardware development, 
		development and releasing of products and enhancements, 
		development and sustaining product operational environments, 
		research and identifying of viable markets and technologies, and even more.


How should a group of 50 devs divide into teams?
	Understanding the pdouct, product vision and scrum framework
		they should self organize.

Management has no official role or accountability on a Scrum Team. 
	However, management external to the Scrum Team is relevant in setting the vision and strategy to guide the overall direction of the organization.

Who creates the Definition of Done?
	If not an organizational standard, Scrum Team

Typical size of scrum team?
	10 or fewer

Customer satisfaction should be measured frequently



Sprint concludes
	when sprint retrospective is complete.

This means that when many Scrum Teams are working on a single product, they are expected to adhere to a single Definition of Done for the Increment